Remote Administration with Netcat
One of the most useful features of
Netcat is command redirection.
The -e option can redirect the input,
output and error messages of an executable
to a TCP or UDP port.
This powerful feature opens up all sorts
of interesting possibilities
from a security perspective.
For example, consider the
cmd.exe executable.
By redirecting standard input,
standard output, and standard
error to the network,
we can bind cmd.exe to a local port.
Anyone connecting to this port will
be presented with a command prompt
on the target computer.
To clarify this, let’s run through a
few scenarios involving Alice and Bob.
Netcat Bind Shell Scenario
In our first scenario, Bob is
running Windows
and Alice is running Linux.
Bob needs assistance and has
asked Alice to connect to his computer
and issue some commands remotely.
Bob has a public IP address and is
directly connected to the Internet.
Alice, however, is behind a NATed.
connection and has an internal IP address.
Bob needs to bind cmd.exe to a
TCP port on his public IP address
and asks Alice to connect to his
particular IP address and port.
Bob will check his local IP address…
..then run Netcat with the -e option
to execute cmd.exe
once a connection is made
to the listening port.
Netcat will bind TCP port 4444 to cmd.exe
and will redirect any input, output,
or error messages
from cmd.exe to the network.
In other words, anyone connecting
to TCP port 4444 on Bob’s machine
(hopefully Alice)
will be presented with
Bob’s command prompt.
As we can see, this works as expected.
Reverse Shell Scenario
In our second scenario,
Alice needs help from Bob.
However, Alice has no control
over the router in her office,
and cannot forward traffic from
the router to her internal machine.
In this case, we can leverage
another useful feature of Netcat;
the ability to send a commandshell
to a host listening on a specific port.
This means we can send control
of Alice’s command prompt to Bob.
This is known as a reverse shell.
To get this working, Bob will first set
up Netcat to listen on port 4444
for an incoming shell.
Now, Alice can send a reverse
shell from her Linux machine to Bob.
Once again, we use the -e option to
make an application available remotely,
which in this case happens to be
/bin/bash, the Linux shell.
Once the connection is established,
Alice’s Netcat will have
redirected /bin/bash input,
output, and error data streams
to Bob’s machine on port 4444…
…where Bob can interact with that shell.
Take some time to consider the differences
between bind and reverse shells,
and how these differences may apply
to various firewall configurations
from an organizational
security standpoint.
It is important to realize
that outgoing traffic
can be just as harmful as
incoming traffic.